readme.md, before:

# Nix Darwin Config

## Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Features](#features)
  - [Packages](#packages)
  - [Hosts](#hosts)
  - [System](#system)
  - [Home Manager](#home-manager)
- [Installation](#installation)

## Overview

This project is a Nix configuration for my Mac. It's based on the [NixOS Darwin configuration](https://mynixos.com/nix-darwin). The `darkstar`
flake is the base MacOS configuration I use across all my Macs. This is written in a declarative and extensible way to support
Linux machines as well.

## Features

### Packages

- **System Packages (pkgs/system.nix)**: All the system packages are installed in _/run/current-system/sw/bin_. Home manager will use these glboal packages unless user defined packages are provided.
- **Fonts (pkgs/fonts.nix)**: The Nerd Font(s) that will be used for terminals/editors. You can find them in Font Book.
- **Brew and AppStore Apps (pkgs/brew.nix)**: This will install commands not present in nixpkgs. Plus, we install most applications via casks and AppStore.

### Hosts

- **darkstar**: This is the base configuration which specifies the environment and home directory for my Mac. The supported shells are zsh, fish and nushell.

### System

- **mac.nix**: Basic configuration for macOS to automatically define NSGlobal and other settings for the system.
- **activation.nix**: Activation scripts for the system. Currently used to:
  - setup the default shell to [Nushell](https://www.nushell.sh/)
  - Download language tools using [mise](https://mise.jdx.dev) available in home directory. Nushell init script will setup mise environment variables accordingly.

### Home Manager

> [!NOTE]
> Sets up the home directory for the user (_home/home.nix_).

It specifies the following configurations:

- **[Atuin](https://atuin.sh/)**: Helps with the history of commands.
- **AWS**: Configures AWS CLI profiles.
- **[Bat](https://github.com/sharkdp/bat)**: Syntax highlighting replacement for cat.
- **[btop](https://github.com/aristocratos/btop)**: Resource monitor in terminal. Sets up catppuccin colorscheme.
- **[Carapace](https://carapace.sh/)**: Autocomplete for the shell.
- **[Direnv](https://direnv.net/)**: Automatically loads environment variables.
- **Git**: Configures git with SSH signing and [delta](https://github.com/dandavison/delta) for better git diffs.
- **[Nushell](https://www.nushell.sh/)**: Loads nushell configurations from home directory. Sources atuin, carapace, direnv, starship and tmux plugins. Plus, it loads up mise environment variables and defines extra keybindings and aliases.
- **[Starship](https://starship.rs/)**: Catppuccin themed prompt.
- **[Tmux](https://github.com/tmux/tmux)**: Configures tmux with catppuccin status bar and custom keybindings and plugins.
- **[Zoxide](https://github.com/ajeetdsouza/zoxide)**: Faster cd command that remembers history.
- **[Neovim](https://neovim.io)**: Neovim configuration using lazyvim to setup plugins.

> [!NOTE]
> Home manager also uses activation scripts to setup ssh keys for git signing and authentication.

## Installation

To install Nix OS, you can use:

```sh
sh <(curl -L https://nixos.org/nix/install)
```

**(Optional)** To check if Nix is installed, you can use:

```sh
nix-shell -p neofetch --run neofetch
```

Once Nix is installed, you can check out this repo and run the following command to install all the system packages,
brew casks, fonts and AppStore apps defined in the `darkstar` flake:

```sh
/run/current-system/sw/bin/darwin-rebuild switch --flake .#darwin
```

> [!WARNING]
> This command needs to be run from the root of this repo folder. Otherwise, you can provide the path to folder where you cloned this repo (path to _flake.nix_).

This command will also setup the home directory _/Users/stelo_ but if you are making further changes to home configuration,
you will need to run this command:

```sh
home-manager switch --flake /path/to/flake.nix
```

Commit message:

feat: adds yazi tool to home manager

readme.md, after:

# Nix Darwin Config

## Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Features](#features)
  - [Packages](#packages)
  - [Hosts](#hosts)
  - [System](#system)
  - [Home Manager](#home-manager)
- [Installation](#installation)

## Overview

This project is a Nix configuration for my Mac. It's based on the [NixOS Darwin configuration](https://mynixos.com/nix-darwin). The `darkstar`
flake is the base MacOS configuration I use across all my Macs. This is written in a declarative and extensible way to support
Linux machines as well.

## Features

### Packages

- **System Packages (pkgs/system.nix)**: All the system packages are installed in _/run/current-system/sw/bin_. Home manager will use these glboal packages unless user defined packages are provided.
- **Fonts (pkgs/fonts.nix)**: The Nerd Font(s) that will be used for terminals/editors. You can find them in Font Book.
- **Brew and AppStore Apps (pkgs/brew.nix)**: This will install commands not present in nixpkgs. Plus, we install most applications via casks and AppStore.

### Hosts

- **darkstar**: This is the base configuration which specifies the environment and home directory for my Mac. The supported shells are zsh, fish and nushell.

### System

- **mac.nix**: Basic configuration for macOS to automatically define NSGlobal and other settings for the system.
- **activation.nix**: Activation scripts for the system. Currently used to:
  - setup the default shell to [Nushell](https://www.nushell.sh/)
  - Download language tools using [mise](https://mise.jdx.dev) available in home directory. Nushell init script will setup mise environment variables accordingly.

### Home Manager

> [!NOTE]
> Sets up the home directory for the user (_home/home.nix_).

It specifies the following configurations:

- **[Atuin](https://atuin.sh/)**: Helps with the history of commands.
- **AWS**: Configures AWS CLI profiles.
- **[Bat](https://github.com/sharkdp/bat)**: Syntax highlighting replacement for cat.
- **[btop](https://github.com/aristocratos/btop)**: Resource monitor in terminal. Sets up rose pine colorscheme.
- **[Carapace](https://carapace.sh/)**: Autocomplete for the shell.
- **[Direnv](https://direnv.net/)**: Automatically loads environment variables.
- **Git**: Configures git with SSH signing and [delta](https://github.com/dandavison/delta) for better git diffs.
- **[Nushell](https://www.nushell.sh/)**: Loads nushell configurations from home directory. Sources atuin, carapace, direnv, starship and tmux plugins. Plus, it loads up mise environment variables and defines extra keybindings and aliases.
- **[Starship](https://starship.rs/)**: Rose pine themed prompt.
- **[Tmux](https://github.com/tmux/tmux)**: Configures tmux with rose pine status bar and custom keybindings and plugins.
- **[Zoxide](https://github.com/ajeetdsouza/zoxide)**: Faster cd command that remembers history.
- **[Neovim](https://neovim.io)**: Neovim configuration using lazyvim to setup plugins.
- **[Yazi](https://yazi-rs.github.io)**: A simple and fast terminal UI for git. Sets up rose pine colorscheme and initial config.

> [!NOTE]
> Home manager also uses activation scripts to setup ssh keys for git signing and authentication.

## Installation

To install Nix OS, you can use:

```sh
sh <(curl -L https://nixos.org/nix/install)
```

**(Optional)** To check if Nix is installed, you can use:

```sh
nix-shell -p neofetch --run neofetch
```

Once Nix is installed, you can check out this repo and run the following command to install all the system packages,
brew casks, fonts and AppStore apps defined in the `darkstar` flake:

```sh
/run/current-system/sw/bin/darwin-rebuild switch --flake .#darwin
```

> [!WARNING]
> This command needs to be run from the root of this repo folder. Otherwise, you can provide the path to folder where you cloned this repo (path to _flake.nix_).

This command will also setup the home directory _/Users/stelo_ but if you are making further changes to home configuration,
you will need to run this command:

```sh
home-manager switch --flake /path/to/flake.nix
```
